# notes

# data analysis

Time(N) vs N (input values)

- Regression is taking out the equation just from the data plot (power law)
- Hypothesis -> the theory of why that happened
- Prediction -> make a plot for what's going on and put future values

We validate our hypothesis.
*This technique is one way to get our time for our hypothesis.*

## Technique 2

Mathematical Model to calculate the time for an algorithm to run.

### Steps

- How many instructions are there for a given input data array?

#### Tilde Notation
In an equation, the term with the highest power is what matters; ignore everything else.

So (n)(n-1) is said in the sense ~n^2
or (n)(n-1)(n-2) is said as ~n^3

- The most expensive operation is the one that's executed the most number of times.

So the worst-case scenario is what we take for the O(n) formula. For example, if the complexity is O(n^3), it means the time taken will be cubed the number of inputs.

##### Order Of Growth
This is where the popular **Big O** Notation comes from.

## Theory Of Algorithm

### Types of Analyses

- Best Case
Least execution

- Worst Case
Most execution

- Average Case
Maybe somewhere near the middle.

So in the 3 sum algorithm, the best and the worst case is 1/2(n^3) because there is no break point, you gotta look everywhere.

## Theory of Algorithm

Notations:

Big Theta | classify algorithm
Big O | Develop Upper Bound
Big Omega | Develop Lower Bounds


so while taking out the o notation, go from inside to outside


**quiz on monday on tower of hanoi**